# North Carolina Science Olympiad (NCSO) Projects

## Emulated Database Project for NCSO

During my time working as Coach Contact for NCSO, I developed a lot of technological solutions focused on emulating a database through a combination of Google Sheets and Google AppScript (JavaScript) to make sure various principles of databases are maintained, such as data integrity, data access, and relations between different data entities (spreadsheets/tables). A detailed developer documentation for the system from 2019 - 2024 can be found [here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12ZQdvEkBDaGqVqNaHMFG5naq_Ryy9Ctc2Su9FfEzpPk/edit?usp=sharing) Some parts of the system are also available to view such as the Newsletter spreadsheet/script, Inventory Projection spreadsheet, No-Photo Counter script, and FixQueryArrayOverwrite script for 2024, which is linked under the documentation for the system. A lot of these parts employ some analytical data mining for inventory prediction models from (Inventory Projection, No-Photo Counter script) while some other parts are for intra-organizational communication (Newsletter spreadsheet/script, FixQueryArrayOverwrite script). No other parts are available due to the sensitive/proprietary information contained within. Please note, the documentation given above is meant for managers and future developers.

## Custom Regex Grading Through Google Sheets

As one of my first projects, I got the opportunity to use my knowledge of regex to create auto-grading algorithms to help speed up grading for the organization, which cut down about 60% of the time required to grade the online tests. [Here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oemwk3Ou2G38IoFbTiQ0eSv6H--c7pJUzRLMbDPg8j4/edit?usp=sharing) is an example of one such solution. In this solution, there is an auto-grading component and a manually graded portion for free-form responses according to a given rubric. The auto-graded portion works by matching each answer to the regex form answer key (in row 2) and awarding points if a match is found. There was an option to attempt an auto-grading algorithm for the manually graded questions, but that option was not feasible due to the strict time constraints. Note, this is only one such spreadsheet with such an algorithm, the organization had almost 40 such spreadsheets with between 50% - 100% of questions being auto-graded, which constituted a time-saving of great magnititude considering the lack of graders during the time. One of the major problems leading up to this solution is that the tests that were written had no platform-specific guidelines on answer keys due to the online transition amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. The only guidelines that were in place were for paper tests that did not translate well while grading and preparing the tests. Another one of the problems that we faced was in the accessibility of the tests as well, where each platform had specific quirks/glitches, so we adapted by established excellent, timely communication with each contact for each team. 
